---
date: 2014-09-24T13:17:48-04:00
description: ""
tags:
- development
- advocacy
- evangelism
title: Evangelism is NOT Sales
topics:
- Development
- Developer Advocacy
---

I recently had a discussion with a CFO of a technology company. We were
meeting because he is trying to better understand the role technical
evangelism could play within his company. Ten minutes into our
conversation he said, "so evangelism is pretty much rogue sales".
Internally I cringed. I politely corrected him that the two could not be
further apart.

Allow me to be a bit philosophical or rather, etymological here.
Evangelism is an apt title for what it does. Let's look back at the
origin of the word. The Old English 'gōdspell' (a union of two words
good and spell. Spell meaning news here. This is a translation of the
Greek word 'euangélion' which also means good news. Breaking it down
further, this is  'eu-' + 'angelos'.  Angelos means messenger and eu-
means good. So this is someone who brings good news. Throughout the
centuries the words have developed strong religious overtones, the
initial terms were more generally used.

Sales comes from the Old English 'sellan' which means to give. More
specifically 'sellan' meant to give up (someone) to an enemy in exchange
for money; 

So Evangelism means bringing of good news and sales means betraying a
colleague for money. Sounds like the definition of things haven't
changed much in thousands of years.

In modern usage, the two roles of sales and evangelism are about as
different as the original definitions. An evangelist role is to increase
awareness and excitement through sharing his/her own experiences. The
goal is not and can never be sales.  The entire operation depends on
authenticity, an  authentic personal experience. 

Good sales people are authentic, but an authentic sales person means
something completely different. It means being honest about intentions
and a sales persons intentions are to make a sale. A sales person rarely
speaks from their own experience. Especially in technology, they
typically cite other's experiences in place of their own. 

Good evangelists are not motivated by what they can gain from a
relationship. Instead they are motivated by a genuine excitement and
passion around a technology and want to share that with others.

